Okay, that's ten past.
NOTE CONF
Now the red lights.
Come on.
NOTE CONF
So, um, good to see lots of people here today.
Let me just put this on here.
NOTE CONF
So, as you should know, if you've been paying attention
in lectures and reading the emails, this is not a
NOTE CONF
normal one B session.
Um, and I think I've talked a little bit about
NOTE CONF
why we're doing this, because what we're doing in first
year is preparing you for the rest of your time
NOTE CONF
in university.
And most of what that means is, is building up
NOTE CONF
the coding skills and the technical skills you're going to
need in later years.
NOTE CONF
But also really important part of that is building up
the other skills that you're going to need in in
NOTE CONF
later on in your degree and as you go into
your career.
NOTE CONF
So one thing we hear all the time from employers
is that it's not that hard to find people with
NOTE CONF
really good technical skills, but people who have really good
technical skills and also are good at the kind of
NOTE CONF
more reflective staff are good at teamwork, are good at
all.
NOTE CONF
The kind of interaction stuff is much more difficult.
So what we're trying to do here is to help
NOTE CONF
you build up a bit about this and help you
think about your pathways through uni.
NOTE CONF
So you should, I hope, be prepared for this to
be a two hour session.
NOTE CONF
We're going to have lunch about halfway through.
Um, I have been in touch with, um, calculus lecturer
NOTE CONF
to let him know that most of you will be
coming to the second one today, rather than the first
NOTE CONF
one.
Obviously, if you have to go, there's a timetable clash
NOTE CONF
or whatever.
That's fine.
NOTE CONF
Um, but hopefully that will work out for most of
you.
NOTE CONF
And, uh, yeah.
So it's it's all about interaction.
NOTE CONF
So make sure you're sitting near people.
Uh, it's actually great if you're sitting near people that
NOTE CONF
you don't hang out with all the time.
But if you're sitting there, your pals, that's that's okay
NOTE CONF
as well, right?
Um, so I haven't got any of the normal stuff.
NOTE CONF
I actually thought I maybe I should have brought part
of the lecture, but I haven't done that.
NOTE CONF
Uh, so I will do double pat of the lecture
on Thursday.
NOTE CONF
Um, I actually saw in some of the I'll go
through the feedback as well from last week on Thursday.
NOTE CONF
I saw in the comments that somebody suggested we should
do a pet of the lecture competition to see who's
NOTE CONF
got the best pair.
I have to say I'm a bit dubious about that.
NOTE CONF
I think all pets are the best pair.
This is very subjective.
NOTE CONF
I'm not sure I can encourage ranking of pets, but
we'll see.
NOTE CONF
Maybe there's something fun we can do with that.
But anyway, most of the time today adds a nice
NOTE CONF
change for you.
Is not going to be me talking out to you.
NOTE CONF
It's going to be you talking amongst yourselves a lot.
But also the session is going to be led by
NOTE CONF
Becca from careers.
So some of you probably already come across Becca.
NOTE CONF
Becca is the person in careers who specialises in informatics.
So she you do drop in sessions and informatics and
NOTE CONF
all sorts.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And she's specialised.
She's a strong word.
NOTE CONF
I mean she's a specialist in informatics career.
I'm going to go that far.
NOTE CONF
So yeah.
So Becca is going to be leading the session and
NOTE CONF
we're ready to get started.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Let's do it.
Great.
NOTE CONF
It is so lovely to come into a room full
of people this size.
NOTE CONF
And you are actually all chatting to each other.
And part of that was probably those annoying and slightly
NOTE CONF
weird slips that I gave you to talk about.
But I think partly it's probably because of the energy
NOTE CONF
you bring into these sessions anyway.
So awesome.
NOTE CONF
Um, what we're doing today is called Life Design at
Edinburgh, and it's part of a program which developed at
NOTE CONF
Stanford University.
So a couple of design engineers.
NOTE CONF
So Bill Bennett, who I think was responsible for the
mouse on Apple laptops quite a long time ago, also
NOTE CONF
has designed some Star Wars toys.
Uh, Bill Bevins, who is more of the marketing side
NOTE CONF
but I think was a partner at Electronic Arts.
They both found themselves at Stanford University and they were
NOTE CONF
running design product design courses, basically.
And they always had students coming to their office hours
NOTE CONF
saying, what am I going to do when I grow
up?
NOTE CONF
What do I do next?
How do I work out what it is that I'm
NOTE CONF
supposed to do next?
And these two guys got to thinking, well, how about
NOTE CONF
if we support students to use the same logic that
we use for designing products and services and tools, and
NOTE CONF
we turn that into a methodology that people can use
to design their lives.
NOTE CONF
And it is a it's now a class at Stanford,
an an elective class, and offered to students at all
NOTE CONF
levels.
There's been quite a lot of research on this class
NOTE CONF
at Stanford, but the people who take the course feel
more in control of the career choices in front of
NOTE CONF
them, which is quite exciting from someone from a career
service perspective to say, look, there's some evidence that this
NOTE CONF
stuff works, so that's quite exciting.
There's also a series of books that they've written, and
NOTE CONF
in the last year and a half, it's become a
course at the University of Edinburgh in a lot of
NOTE CONF
different formats.
I got to go and train at Stanford, except it
NOTE CONF
wasn't at Stanford.
And like Fiona, they wouldn't pay me to go to
NOTE CONF
California.
I had to sit in my own home on Californian
NOTE CONF
time.
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
But.
But it was still pretty fun.
NOTE CONF
It's quite a high energy, kind of interactive.
Course we've taken it.
NOTE CONF
We're turning it into something that we hope is warm
and and fuzzy and friendly for you guys.
NOTE CONF
So we're hoping that the tools that we're going to
cover today are all about getting more out of your
NOTE CONF
time at university, more than rather than cramming more in.
When we look at things like student surveys or feedback.
NOTE CONF
People are often saying, there is so much.
There's so much that I need to do.
NOTE CONF
There are things that I need to do that are
part of my course.
NOTE CONF
And oh, other people are part of societies, and they're
also doing internships, and they're also building projects and they're
NOTE CONF
also doing all this other stuff.
How do I navigate through that so that I know
NOTE CONF
I'm doing what's going to be useful and helpful for
me?
NOTE CONF
So there are a couple of kind of motivators there.
Uh, introducing ourselves.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Thankfully, you know what Fiona looks like.
NOTE CONF
Um, as Fiona has already said, I'm part of the
career service.
NOTE CONF
I'm the link consultant for the School of Informatics, and
what that really means is I get to do stuff
NOTE CONF
like this.
But I also work with students across the university.
NOTE CONF
Do you want to do your own other introduction, or
are you confident they know who you are?
NOTE CONF
And what I would like for you to do now
is to introduce yourself to someone who you don't know
NOTE CONF
already.
So this might involve turning around behind you or in
NOTE CONF
front of you.
These chairs swivel, which makes this quite interesting.
NOTE CONF
If you are surrounded by people that you know, be
brave.
NOTE CONF
Stand up and walk over to somebody that you don't
know.
NOTE CONF
And what we just like you to do in three
minutes or less, we might see how we do is
NOTE CONF
tell the person a story, what your name is and
a story about your name.
NOTE CONF
So, for example, my story about my name is, my
name was Rebecca Casey.
NOTE CONF
I got married to a guy called Mark Jones.
I was going to keep my name, but then we
NOTE CONF
moved into a flat in Oxford, and he got court
summons for everyone else.
NOTE CONF
Ever.
Who'd ever been called Mark Jones, who owed money to
NOTE CONF
Oxford City Council.
So we decided to squish our names together because no
NOTE CONF
one else has got that name, so we won't be
taken to court.
NOTE CONF
Fiona, do you have a name story?
Um, I don't think I've got a very interesting name.
NOTE CONF
Sorry, Fiona, this is a it's an Anglo-Saxon of a
Gaelic word, Fiona, which means white or pale.
NOTE CONF
So it used to be something.
This is where the word fair comes from.
NOTE CONF
It used to, as a really positive adjective for a
woman, beautifully fair.
NOTE CONF
But of course, nowadays being like super pasty and white
is not quite such a positive attribute.
NOTE CONF
But that's where Fiona comes from.
It's not a proper Gaelic name, but it's a kind
NOTE CONF
of anglicised Gaelic name.
And my my surname McNeill, obviously, that's a Highland name
NOTE CONF
and I really like my name, but people always spell
it wrong.
NOTE CONF
Even people I've known for like 20 or 30 years
spell it with one L and it drives me up
NOTE CONF
the wall.
So always remember it's got two owls in it and
NOTE CONF
then I'll be happy about it, right?
Fair.
NOTE CONF
Two L's got it sorted.
Okay, I'm going to start a timer.
NOTE CONF
And I would like you to try and find as
many people as possible to share your name story with.
NOTE CONF
So start with the people next to you, but then
stand up.
NOTE CONF
Move around before the timer goes off.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Go.
Why?
NOTE CONF
Am I doing this?
It's quite good, isn't it?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
The next time we give them a time, they'll sit,
NOTE CONF
sit, sit, and then we can.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I hate to interrupt what sound like really good conversations,
but if you want to slowly kind of move back
NOTE CONF
to where you were sitting, that would be great.
Definite extra bonus points.
NOTE CONF
Bonus points there to the people who are now walking
back to their seats, because it meant they went to
NOTE CONF
find someone they didn't know already.
Which is exactly what we want here.
NOTE CONF
Fab!
Stop.
NOTE CONF
Great.
Thank you very much for sharing.
NOTE CONF
So little bit of an overview of some of the
stuff we're going to do today.
NOTE CONF
We've got three activities that we're going to focus on.
Will break for lunch in the middle.
NOTE CONF
Probably these things aren't going to mean very much yet.
So I'm going to start to tell you about them.
NOTE CONF
So let's start by thinking about this idea of design
thinking.
NOTE CONF
So what do we actually mean when we talk about
design thinking?
NOTE CONF
And to start there, we can think about different kinds
of thinking and the way that we might compare them.
NOTE CONF
So we've got engineering thinking.
Now engineers are often thinking, how can I build the
NOTE CONF
best version of this?
How can I build the strongest bridge or the fastest
NOTE CONF
car?
How can I solve my way forward by building stuff?
NOTE CONF
So we say that engineers think by a lot about
engineering.
NOTE CONF
Thinking is about solving problems.
Business thinking is about optimising your way forward.
NOTE CONF
So it's about thinking what are the levers that I
can pull?
NOTE CONF
What are the factors that will make my business more
profitable or increase my customer base?
NOTE CONF
Thinking about those little incremental pieces to optimise my way
forward.
NOTE CONF
Now, within research thinking, quite often people are analysing their
way forward.
NOTE CONF
So they're about isolating variables.
What's going on here?
NOTE CONF
What makes a difference?
How can we understand how we can move our way
NOTE CONF
forward?
And then what makes designers different is they are building
NOTE CONF
their way forward.
So they're trying stuff.
NOTE CONF
So rather than analysing rather than optimising, rather than trying
to find the best possible option, what designers do is
NOTE CONF
they do stuff and they see if it works and
then they do some other stuff.
NOTE CONF
Any resonance, Fiona, between those four different kinds of thinking,
where would you put yourself?
NOTE CONF
Mr. Tennyson.
I mean, I think that certainly when you're thinking about
NOTE CONF
coding, there's all kinds of combinations of these involved in
that.
NOTE CONF
I mean, certainly it's all about engineering, but, um, I
think, yeah, the idea of analysing where you are, where
NOTE CONF
you're at, and I'm trying to talk about this a
lot in the course, in the course of like when
NOTE CONF
things don't go wrong, it's when things don't go right.
You have to think like strip it back and do
NOTE CONF
that analysis.
Um, but maybe the design thinking is stuff that we
NOTE CONF
do less.
And probably for me personally, I guess I don't do
NOTE CONF
that as much.
I do a lot of research thinking and engineering thinking,
NOTE CONF
but maybe not as much design thinking as I maybe
should do.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, yeah, I would agree.
I think I come from a consulting or a business
NOTE CONF
background before I moved into this kind of work, and
sometimes I'm in a university setting and I'm trying to
NOTE CONF
say, but how can we make this just a little
bit better?
NOTE CONF
How can we make more students come?
How can we get slightly better on the feedback form
NOTE CONF
rather than this?
Just let's try it and see what happens and see
NOTE CONF
what the result is.
So that's what we're we're doing that a little bit
NOTE CONF
now right with this.
So we've we've used to run a lot of these
NOTE CONF
as separate events, standalone events.
And it was really hard to get students to come.
NOTE CONF
And then we thought, well actually this is a fundamental
part of what we want our students to be learning
NOTE CONF
in first year.
This is a core part of education, and so we
NOTE CONF
ought to have it in a in a lecture context
in your normal teaching rather than rather than separately.
NOTE CONF
So now we're seeing how it goes.
So so far I'm pretty happy because there's a lot
NOTE CONF
of people here.
So what is design thinking.
NOTE CONF
We're going to look really briefly at the way designers
work and the way designers think.
NOTE CONF
And then we're going to start looking at some of
the tools that we can use to design our own
NOTE CONF
lives, careers, time at university.
So this process is probably one you're actually reasonably familiar
NOTE CONF
with, if you think about it.
If we start with this empathise step, if we're designing
NOTE CONF
something, we need to empathise with the people who are
going to use it.
NOTE CONF
So if I was going to make a new pair
of trainers, I would want to start by saying, well,
NOTE CONF
I need to understand what's going on for people who
buy trainers or people who wear trainers.
NOTE CONF
What do they want from that?
What are the problems with the trainers that they already
NOTE CONF
buy?
If I was going to design an app or a
NOTE CONF
game or a tool, I would want to think, well,
who's going to be using this and understand a lot
NOTE CONF
more about them in life design?
The user is us.
NOTE CONF
So actually we have to empathise with ourselves.
So a lot of the parts of the life design
NOTE CONF
program are about self-reflection, about understanding what's going on for
you, what's important to you, what do you want to
NOTE CONF
take forward, what do you want to do less of?
We then move into that defined stage, and I think
NOTE CONF
that also marks out designers as working in quite a
different way in that really understanding the problem is key.
NOTE CONF
If you are jumping to a solution before you've taken
time back to say, what am I actually trying to
NOTE CONF
do here?
And when we're thinking about our lives, IVs.
NOTE CONF
Making sure that we're focusing on problems that we can
actually fix is really important.
NOTE CONF
Making sure we're focusing on problems which open up possibilities
rather than no, I can't do that because or that's
NOTE CONF
not an option for me because is really important.
And we move into this ideation stage rather than jumping
NOTE CONF
to the solution.
We're thinking, what are all of the wild and interesting
NOTE CONF
and flexible possible ways that we could solve this problem
of how do we spend our time at university?
NOTE CONF
What do we want to do with our lives?
What happens next?
NOTE CONF
And by thinking really broadly there, you're opening up lots
of different possibilities.
NOTE CONF
We've got some ideas and then we want to test
them.
NOTE CONF
But you know, architects for example, they don't test things
by building an entire building.
NOTE CONF
They test things by making a tiny, tiny cardboard model
and seeing if it blows over in the wind and
NOTE CONF
looking at the angles and parking little cars in the
car park and things like that.
NOTE CONF
And there are lots of different prototypes that we can
do with the things that we're curious about with our
NOTE CONF
own lives, and then we choose those deeper things to
test.
NOTE CONF
How do we get more data to enable us to
move forward?
NOTE CONF
And then that accept button at the top is probably
one of the most important ones.
NOTE CONF
It's about accepting when we've tried something.
What's the data?
NOTE CONF
What does that tell us?
What do we do now?
NOTE CONF
And also when it comes to life and career, it's
accepting that we live in the real world.
NOTE CONF
However much I may want to be an Olympic gold
medal link, medal winning gymnast, I think the time has
NOTE CONF
passed for me to do that.
I think even a really good exercise regime would not
NOTE CONF
fix that problem for me.
So I need to accept that and focus on something
NOTE CONF
that is achievable.
So today we're largely going to be having a look
NOTE CONF
at some of those early stages of that process.
So around empathising with ourselves and defining the problem.
NOTE CONF
Now the other thing we want to do is start
to think a little bit like designers.
NOTE CONF
And there are a range of mindsets or approaches or
ways of working.
NOTE CONF
And I think they're the few that are going to
be really important for us are this ideal of radical
NOTE CONF
collaboration.
Basically, the principle that the best idea for you could
NOTE CONF
very easily come from somebody else.
So how do we build groups of people around us
NOTE CONF
who can advise us and find connections and help us
to define the problems we're facing and come up with
NOTE CONF
really good ideas?
That that mindset of curiosity is probably quite self-explanatory, but
NOTE CONF
it's really important going in and saying, how might I
do all of these kinds of things?
NOTE CONF
What might be out there?
What would be interesting to me?
NOTE CONF
And then that reframing, that idea of saying, what am
I doing that I could look at from a different
NOTE CONF
angle in order to move on?
But we'll look at those in more detail in a
NOTE CONF
bit later.
So.
NOTE CONF
The other thing I want to say before we jump
into the first activity is that We get so few
NOTE CONF
opportunities in life to talk about ourselves, and we get
so few opportunities in life to even think about ourselves.
NOTE CONF
And this is one of those and sometimes what we're
going to ask you to share or to think about
NOTE CONF
today might be quite difficult.
It might feel weird to talk about things that you've
NOTE CONF
done in the past with other people.
And what I'm just going to urge you to do
NOTE CONF
is to think, can I learn anything from doing this?
Can I stretch myself slightly outside of my comfort zone
NOTE CONF
in order to be able to get some help or
support or connections or ideas from other people?
NOTE CONF
So we've run versions of these courses in lots of
different places, and the feedback is always really interesting, but
NOTE CONF
challenging in a positive way, or some other words in
those kind of connections.
NOTE CONF
So just that idea of stretch yourself.
If it feels a bit uncomfortable, go with it, see
NOTE CONF
what it's like afterwards, but obviously set your own boundaries.
If there are things you don't want to talk about,
NOTE CONF
you don't want to share.
If someone asks you a question, you could just say
NOTE CONF
no.
Don't want to talk about that.
NOTE CONF
Does that all seem okay for everyone?
A few nods, that's helpful.
NOTE CONF
Couple of other things is I would urge you to
consider distractions in your pockets or in your hands, or
NOTE CONF
on your desks or in your bags are amazing technologies
designed by incredibly clever people directly to draw your attention
NOTE CONF
to them.
Those people are awesome and clever, and one day you
NOTE CONF
might be part of that.
Those technological companies who are drawing our time and our
NOTE CONF
attention and our money.
But what I would like you to do in this
NOTE CONF
session is just say, do I want to be distracted
by this right now?
NOTE CONF
So we have printed out workbooks, and for the rest
of this session, you don't need your laptop.
NOTE CONF
You will need your phone at the end.
And you're welcome to use your phone to take photos
NOTE CONF
or notes or anything, but challenge yourself to turn off
notifications.
NOTE CONF
Close laptops.
Close screens.
NOTE CONF
Focus on yourself and on other people.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Any questions about that before we start?
Cool.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so the first thing we're going to do is
an activity called experience maps.
NOTE CONF
So this comes from the idea of empathising with ourselves,
of spending a little bit of time just thinking about
NOTE CONF
what you've done in the past and why it's important
for the future.
NOTE CONF
What are the connections and the ideas?
So what I'm going to ask you to do in
NOTE CONF
a little bit is to find the this document, which
we've got some student helpers who will come and hand
NOTE CONF
you one if you haven't got one already.
We'll do that in a minute.
NOTE CONF
Yes, we've got pens.
So if anyone's got their own pen, that would be
NOTE CONF
ideal.
We have got.
NOTE CONF
No, we, we've got some pens, but if you've got
a pen, if you can share a pen with someone
NOTE CONF
else, that would be great.
We have got some we can move through.
NOTE CONF
So I'll give you just a minute to make sure
that you've got a piece of paper.
NOTE CONF
So if you don't have the workbook, maybe waive and
one of the student helpers will come and hand out
NOTE CONF
those for us.
Have you got the other pack?
NOTE CONF
No.
That's just.
NOTE CONF
I'm like.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to tell you a little bit more
about what we're going to do with this paper that
NOTE CONF
we've just given you and our Uh, student facilitators.
Maybe you could come around with some pens and just
NOTE CONF
check that everyone has pens that they need them.
That would be wonderful.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Have they got the books?
NOTE CONF
Yeah, they're around here.
Pen, go.
NOTE CONF
Could you hand out some of those?
Great.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Okay, put your hands up.
NOTE CONF
You can wave if you need a pen.
Great couple down there.
NOTE CONF
Great.
So, um, there's some in a box that also.
NOTE CONF
Has, I think.
Okay, so before everyone gets started and I can see
NOTE CONF
people with pens poised already, I'm going to explain a
little bit more about why we're doing this activity and
NOTE CONF
why we're doing it in this way.
Okay, everyone listen.
NOTE CONF
So if I were to ask you, tell me about
the meaningful experiences that you've had.
NOTE CONF
Tell me about the memorable things that have happened to
you.
NOTE CONF
Then you would probably come up a list of those
things that are probably quite big and quite significant.
NOTE CONF
So they might be I took these exams or I
moved to Edinburgh to start studying, or I was elected
NOTE CONF
captain of the cricket team or whatever it happens to
be.
NOTE CONF
There'd be things that felt quite substantial.
They might also be challenging things, you know, illnesses, things
NOTE CONF
that might have happened with with family, but possibly it
wouldn't be the kinds of things that you would come
NOTE CONF
up with, wouldn't.
The things you came up with wouldn't necessarily be the
NOTE CONF
things that have had the biggest influence on the decisions
that you've made.
NOTE CONF
So before we start mapping out what you've done over
the last few years, I want you to start by
NOTE CONF
thinking about what experiences have been meaningful for you.
So examples here.
NOTE CONF
So things like that late night conversation with somebody that
you had that made you think, oh, actually, maybe I
NOTE CONF
could come and study computer science.
Maybe it was a really interesting book that you read
NOTE CONF
that made you think, okay, well, I want to go
and travel to this country.
NOTE CONF
I want to move in that direction.
Maybe it was something that went wrong or something small
NOTE CONF
or immaterial, that actually has been quite influential in the
way that you think or the way that you address
NOTE CONF
things.
So what I would like you to do is on
NOTE CONF
the piece of paper which looks like this with the
four squares.
NOTE CONF
I would like you to spend five minutes, which is
a really long time by yourselves, making a note of
NOTE CONF
what are the meaningful experiences that you have had over
the last however many years you want to think about?
NOTE CONF
And these are a couple of examples from from other
students.
NOTE CONF
So they're thinking about things like hobbies.
This one at the bottom there they have a talk
NOTE CONF
from a pilot at their school, which made them start
to think about what they wanted to study.
NOTE CONF
Mechanical engineering came out of that idea that it was
someone who came to their school.
NOTE CONF
And we've got an example up here of, obviously, a
conversation with a teacher, which was influential in what you
NOTE CONF
were going to choose.
We've got someone down here who was thinking about, actually,
NOTE CONF
they're just telling us they used to watch a lot
of documentaries on the Discovery Channel, and actually that has
NOTE CONF
led to career making decisions.
So we're not thinking about just things which have been
NOTE CONF
helpful in choosing courses, but just anything that when you
look back at your life, it feels meaningful.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to start a timer for this exercise.
It's a kind of personal reflection, so it's probably best
NOTE CONF
to just give yourself the time to reflect on that.
Before we get going, does anyone have any questions?
NOTE CONF
I've got a question.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Can you explain about the four different boxes with the
symbols?
NOTE CONF
Yes.
So they should have labels as well.
NOTE CONF
So you can use these categorisations or not.
But the Categorisations are helping you to think really broadly
NOTE CONF
about all aspects of your life.
So you've got one section there which is for play
NOTE CONF
or fun.
What are the things that you've done which have been
NOTE CONF
entertaining or interesting or fit into that kind of category?
You've got one section which is about work or study.
NOTE CONF
You've got one section which is about relationships or connections,
or in the the book version they call love.
NOTE CONF
You can interpret that however however you wish, but it's
about connections with people.
NOTE CONF
And then there's another section which is about health and
we mean mental, physical health.
NOTE CONF
Anything that for you fits into those kinds of categories.
It can be quite helpful to think.
NOTE CONF
Can I get a few meaningful experiences in all of
those boxes as a prompt to move forward?
NOTE CONF
But if all of your meaningful experiences are in one
box, that's fine too.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Any questions?
NOTE CONF
So I will start a timer.
Um, there we go.
NOTE CONF
I love this one.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we're thinking about personal reflections.
So fine to share with other people, but give yourself
NOTE CONF
time to think about your own personal reflections.
Okay, just remembering this bit.
NOTE CONF
You're mostly supposed to be reflecting on your own stuff.
Not chatting too much.
NOTE CONF
There's going to be loads of time for chatting about
what you're thinking about later on, but right now, just
NOTE CONF
think on your own about yourself primarily, okay?
I only got another a minute and a half left.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Pop your pens down.
NOTE CONF
How did you find that?
I think obviously I walked around.
NOTE CONF
There were lots of people having different ways to approach
that.
NOTE CONF
Did anyone find that easy?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
No.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So nobody found that easy.
NOTE CONF
It wasn't suddenly that there were a list of instant
things that you considered to be memorable.
NOTE CONF
That came through.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Anyone find it particularly hard?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what I'm going to ask you to do now
NOTE CONF
is to go back to that list and to start
to add those experiences to the map.
NOTE CONF
So on the back there.
So hopefully by separating them out, rather than saying, well,
NOTE CONF
just tell us what you've done, tell us what's happened
and thinking about those things chronologically.
NOTE CONF
Just encouraging you to reflect on how those things fit
together.
NOTE CONF
So you can see on that printout at the back
you've got previous years, which can be as many or
NOTE CONF
as few as you want to include in that definition.
You've got last year and you've got this year if
NOTE CONF
you want to use the margins, if you want to
use the notes page, then that's fine.
NOTE CONF
But what I would like you to do is go
through those meaningful experiences and just plot them onto the
NOTE CONF
map.
So what happened?
NOTE CONF
Where?
What happened when?
NOTE CONF
If you've got coloured pens, you could use that.
But I'm guessing not many people have at this stage.
NOTE CONF
And then as you're doing that, you might start to
notice themes.
NOTE CONF
Connections.
Did did one meaningful experience lead to another?
NOTE CONF
What were the patterns that you can see?
So as you're adding those things chronologically, I just want
NOTE CONF
you to have in the back of your mind what
was going on here, what's important.
NOTE CONF
And if you can identify things that happened deliberately or
things that happened kind of accidentally, then that might be
NOTE CONF
useful information to have as well.
So any questions?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Most of the problems that you have.
NOTE CONF
So I've got a couple of examples.
That's a really good question.
NOTE CONF
So you can do it in however make sense.
So this is an example.
NOTE CONF
This is a second year mechanical engineering student who actually
gave us one of those examples at the beginning.
NOTE CONF
And he decided to put those things on.
And he's drawn some different arrows.
NOTE CONF
So actually he's used those colours.
And we've got this bit of a health thing going
NOTE CONF
on here.
So it seems like a broken leg in the middle
NOTE CONF
of first year or the middle of second year was
a bit of a health downer there as well.
NOTE CONF
We've got this development here.
So who's talking about this talk we're talking about then
NOTE CONF
leading to mechanical engineering.
And then he's talking about joining formula student and the
NOTE CONF
kind of impact of that too.
So you can leave this final column which is the
NOTE CONF
what next column.
You don't need to focus on that unless anything comes
NOTE CONF
up.
But go back and have a look.
NOTE CONF
I think there's a few more examples.
So this person is just arranged them kind of thematically.
NOTE CONF
And again, someone there, I think we must have had
lots of pens on that day.
NOTE CONF
So they put those together.
Does that make sense?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Great.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Any other questions on that one?
Okay.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to give you three minutes.
This timer hasn't got music.
NOTE CONF
It's just a silent one.
So as you're going think, do you like music?
NOTE CONF
Do you not?
And then we'll adjust a bit later on.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Three minutes to put things on your map chronologically and
NOTE CONF
find the connections between them.
Well, then.
NOTE CONF
That's not very nice.
Wow.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Oh.
NOTE CONF
Uh, okay.
Good.
NOTE CONF
Is that better or not working?
Won't be.
NOTE CONF
I will time this one on my phone and give
you updates.
NOTE CONF
So, again, probably largely a personal reflection.
Lots of chances to talk about it later, but give
NOTE CONF
yourself a little bit of time to really think about
what you've done in the past and what's meaningful for
NOTE CONF
you.
184.
NOTE CONF
I think.
It's more than I get.
NOTE CONF
That is less than.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
I just want to see it like that.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Just.
One more minute.
NOTE CONF
Just to add to those meaningful experiences in chronological order.
And notice anything that's going on there.
NOTE CONF
So.
What is that all about?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Before my phone beeps the time we're at us.
That's the.
NOTE CONF
End.
Oh!
NOTE CONF
Damn it!
There we.
NOTE CONF
Go.
So that's the end of that three minute process.
NOTE CONF
Now, it was clear from across the room there were
some people for whom that felt a little bit weird
NOTE CONF
or a little bit uncomfortable anyway.
And that's really interesting.
NOTE CONF
But if I was going to give you a bit
of a thought about why it's worth doing that, it's
NOTE CONF
worth thinking in detail about what you've done in the
past.
NOTE CONF
It's worth spending time on saying, how did that happen?
Why did that happen?
NOTE CONF
Are there things that you can reflect on?
Things that have gone really well, things that have gone
NOTE CONF
that have been more challenging, that you want to explore
or you want to take forward.
NOTE CONF
And when we're thinking of that big question, which is
why we're here today, which is how can you make
NOTE CONF
the most of your time at university, then how you
made the most of your time before you came to
NOTE CONF
university is going to be a really important factor there.
Coming in and saying, well, what have I done before?
NOTE CONF
What do I want to do more of?
What do I want to do less of what's new
NOTE CONF
and what's new and possible out there for me?
So we're going to move on to something slightly different
NOTE CONF
just before we break for lunch.
And that's to ask that big question, which is what
NOTE CONF
is university for?
Why are we here?
NOTE CONF
What is the point of getting up every single morning
and coming here?
NOTE CONF
So what I would like you to do is just
scribble down on the back of the fourth bit of
NOTE CONF
paper there just an answer to this question.
So university will be a success if I just want
NOTE CONF
you to complete that sentence.
So write it down first and then share it with
NOTE CONF
somebody else.
So write yourself a note.
NOTE CONF
There's a page on the back that just says notes.
You can write it there.
NOTE CONF
Yeah that's great.
It's all there.
NOTE CONF
It's all wrapped up.
So we need a few minutes before.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
And then we'll move to the Guardian.
NOTE CONF
Ability to go out and do that.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
So this section could be reasonably short.
And when I actually get them up on their feet.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
And they're kind.
NOTE CONF
Of.
Happening.
NOTE CONF
Right?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So is everyone written something down?
University will be a success if some people still writing.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
And then what I would like you to do for
NOTE CONF
this one is I would like everyone to stand up.
Take your piece of paper with you.
NOTE CONF
If you need it, leave your laptops, bags, everything on
the desks, you can come back to them.
NOTE CONF
I want you to stand up and find two new
people.
NOTE CONF
So people you haven't spoken to today.
And I just want you to tell them what success
NOTE CONF
at university would mean for you.
So everyone stand up.
NOTE CONF
We're going to be on our feet for a little
bit now, so just leave all your things coming into
NOTE CONF
the aisles.
Go and find somebody else to talk to.
NOTE CONF
Shall I go and start to tell them it's going
to be.
NOTE CONF
Another seven minutes?
Maybe.
NOTE CONF
Great.
Job.
NOTE CONF
So maybe turn to the people behind you to start
with.
NOTE CONF
That would be great.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
Awesome.
What has to happen?
NOTE CONF
There's plenty of space at the front.
If it's easier to come around the front to have
NOTE CONF
these conversations, Please do.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
Awesome.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
Oh, no.
Thanks.
NOTE CONF
I'll put it here.
They'll come back for it.
NOTE CONF
That's amazing.
That's good.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
Again.
Really nice buzz in the room.
NOTE CONF
And again, thank you for everything.
Okay, everyone, you're listening.
NOTE CONF
Anita, I need a gong, don't I?
Or a whistle?
NOTE CONF
Maybe that would be good.
A whistle.
NOTE CONF
That'd be better at.
The Sound of Music.
NOTE CONF
Hello?
Is everybody listening?
NOTE CONF
Okay, so you've all had a bit of a go
at writing that personal understanding of what university is and
NOTE CONF
what it's for.
I'm going to get people to move again.
NOTE CONF
So if you're happy to stand where you are for
a couple of minutes, that would be really useful.
NOTE CONF
If you need to sit down, obviously do, but where
you are is fine.
NOTE CONF
So what we're going to look at now is a
series of university archetypes to help us kind of quantify
NOTE CONF
and reflect on why we're here, what's university for and
what's that what why, why, why are we here?
NOTE CONF
So the first of these is the life of the
mind.
NOTE CONF
So the idea that you are here and your purpose
of education is about Out intellectual pursuits.
NOTE CONF
It's about understanding knowledge.
It's about developing your capacity to understand knowledge.
NOTE CONF
So people who perhaps would fit into this universities for
the life of the mind, will be people who came
NOTE CONF
because they were really passionate about a subject, because they
want to develop expertise, because they want to contribute to
NOTE CONF
creating new knowledge.
So that's the life of the mind and the life
NOTE CONF
of the mind poster, which is going to be important
for later on, is over in that corner.
NOTE CONF
The second of these archetypes is career readiness.
So is university.
NOTE CONF
For the express purpose of helping you to develop skills,
knowledges, knowledge, experiences that are going to enable you to
NOTE CONF
launch fulfilling, exciting careers.
The third of these is primarily about self actualisation.
NOTE CONF
Is it about becoming you, understanding yourself, knowing what's important
to you, what you can do, your capabilities so it
NOTE CONF
might give you opportunities to expand on some of those
other things that fit into the university experience, like travelling
NOTE CONF
or playing a sport.
And the fourth of those archetypes is that university is
NOTE CONF
about supporting ourselves and our communities.
So education is a key to social mobility, to building
NOTE CONF
better, more equal, innovative societies.
And also in this category might be that actually I'm
NOTE CONF
coming here to study because I think that people depend
on me.
NOTE CONF
So those four archetypes, there are four posters in four
corners of the room.
NOTE CONF
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to
read a series of prompts.
NOTE CONF
And I would like you to answer the prompts by
moving closest to the poster, which I think matches this.
NOTE CONF
This is going to be chaos, and that's fine.
We're happy with.
NOTE CONF
Chaos.
So roughly speaking, we've got you in this corner.
NOTE CONF
So that kind of self-actualisation we've got supporting myself and
my community over here.
NOTE CONF
We've got career readiness over there.
And then we've got the other one, which I've completely
NOTE CONF
forgotten.
And someone's head's in front of it over there.
NOTE CONF
It's life of the mind.
Life of the mind.
NOTE CONF
Life of mind.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Are we ready?
So the first prompt is, what do your family caregivers.
NOTE CONF
We use that term as loosely as possible to encounter
anyone who you might consider family.
NOTE CONF
What do they think the purpose of university is?
So all you need to do now is go and
NOTE CONF
stand next to the poster that you think sums up
what your family think the purpose of university is.
NOTE CONF
So careers over there, life of the mind at the
back.
NOTE CONF
They're becoming you.
They're.
NOTE CONF
And supporting your communities over there.
I mean, it's like a one way system or like
NOTE CONF
maybe yeah.
I think they'll get there.
NOTE CONF
But yeah, it's a good idea.
What if one parent is in one corner?
NOTE CONF
That's a really good question.
If they're split, if you're split and you want to
NOTE CONF
stand midway between two posters?
That's totally fine.
NOTE CONF
So the room is your oyster?
Exactly.
NOTE CONF
That's fine.
Differing views within your family.
NOTE CONF
You can stand between two different posters.
There's a lot of hesitation.
NOTE CONF
If you need to be in the middle, that's probably
okay.
NOTE CONF
But.
Okay, we're.
NOTE CONF
Going.
To go second down.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Another few seconds to move to the right place.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Now quite interesting.
If we were to plot this on a graph, we've
NOTE CONF
got a definite heap over there about career readiness, which
is really interesting.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to be super mean now, and I'm going
to pick on a few people to tell me why
NOTE CONF
you're standing where you are.
If you don't want to answer, you can just, you
NOTE CONF
know, blank me.
That would be fine.
NOTE CONF
So yeah, that's.
A good idea.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
So quieting down everyone because the microphones aren't that good.
NOTE CONF
Fabulous.
Okay, so we're just asking, why are you standing here
NOTE CONF
equidistant between them?
Tell us a little bit about that.
NOTE CONF
Well, well, my dad is very career orientated, so I
would be more on that corner.
NOTE CONF
But my mum wants me to become myself, so I'm
like, yeah, I'm the.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
In the middle.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Awesome.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
Great.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's say someone from this big group over here
and it will be someone I can reach.
NOTE CONF
So everyone's avoiding my gaze.
Would you mind telling me a little bit?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
No.
NOTE CONF
Um, I was trying to go in the middle over
there, but my mom is career oriented, and my dad
NOTE CONF
wanted me to, like, learn new things and things like
that.
NOTE CONF
Cool.
Awesome.
NOTE CONF
Great.
And I'm just going to come up to someone from
NOTE CONF
life of the mind over here.